hello and welcome to another leak code
solution video this is problem number 16
threesome closest for this problem we're
given an integer array nums of length n
and an integer Target find three
integers in the nums such that the sum
is closest to the Target return the sum
of the three integers you may assume
that each input would have exactly one
solution for example one we're given an
input nums array of negative one two one
and negative four with our Target of one
so our output is two
this is because the sum that is the
closest to the Target is negative one
plus two plus one equals two
for example two we're given an input
num's array of zero zero zero with a
target of one and the output is zero and
this is because the closest sum to the
Target is zero which is our zero plus
zero plus zero equals zero
let's go through an example for this
example we're given an input array of
one four two six three seven and a
target of seven the first thing we can
do is sort our input array so now our
input array is one two three four six
seven the next thing we're going to do
is Loop through our input array and keep
track of three points the three points
we want to keep track of is our current
index our left point and our right point
and for each index we're going to move
our left point and our right Point
towards each other adding up the three
points to get the sum and keeping track
of which sum is closest to our Target
value so for this first one we're going
to have our index of one and our left
point of two and our right point of
seven so we want to add those up so one
plus two plus seven is ten so we'll keep
track of this total as our closest sum
because currently it's our closest sum
to our Target value of seven and since
our total is greater than our Target
we're going to want to move our right
point to the left and this is because we
want to decrease our total and moving
our right point to the left we'll get a
smaller number so now our index is one
our left point is two and our right
point is six so our total is now nine
and we want to compare this against our
closest sum to see which is closest to
our Target and we can do that by using
this formula if the absolute value of
our total minus our Target is less than
the absolute value of our closest sum
minus our Target then we want to swap
our closest sum with our new Total so in
this case we have nine minus seven and
ten minus 7 which is two and three
so since 2 is less than 3 we want to
swap our closest sum with our current
total and since our total is still
greater than our Target we're going to
move our right point to the left again
now our index is one our left point is 2
and our right point is four adding those
up our total is seven this is equal to
our Target in our solution we can add a
check to see if our Target is equal to
our total to just return the total value
and this is because in the problem
statement it mentions that we can assume
that there's only one solution per input
array so in this case our closest sum is
seven let's jump into the code first
thing we want to do is sort our nums
array
next we want to Define our closest sum
variable and we can set this to Infinity
at first so that when we do our first
check against our total sum it'll just
always add it into this variable
next we can Loop through our numbers
array and we only want to Loop through
for the length of our nums array minus
two since we'll have our left and right
points we never need to go to the end of
our numbers array
now we'll get our left and right points
to start out our left point will be our
current index plus one and our right
point will be the length of our nums
array minus one
the reason our right point is the length
of our num's array minus one is because
arrays indexes start at zero now we're
going to use a while loop so that we can
check every left and right point of this
given index and we'll Loop while our
left point is less than our right point
and the first thing we'll do is
calculate our total and our total equals
the value at our index the value at our
left point and the value at our right
point
and right after we calculate our total
we can add the check to see if our total
is equal to our Target value and if it
is we can just return that total value
and if our total value is not equal to
our Target we're going to want to
compare it to our previous closest sum
value to see if it's closer to the
Target than our previous closest sum and
that'll be using the formula we use in
the example of if our absolute value of
our total minus our Target is less than
the absolute value of our closest sum
minus our Target then we'll set the
closest sum equal to our new Total
and next we'll want to determine if
we're moving our left or right pointer
and we're doing this by checking our
total against our Target if our total is
less than our Target we're going to be
moving our left pointer otherwise we'll
be moving our right pointer
and that's all we'll need to do for our
looping so at this point we can just
return our closest sum value
and that's it for the code so let's run
this
all test cases passed so let's submit
our solution was accepted so that's it
for this video If you like this video
and want to see more content like this
make sure to check out my channel thanks
for watching
[Music]